index.md, before:

---
layout: cv
title: Nicholas Chaung's CV
---
# Nicholas Chaung
Experienced Data Engineer with a proven history of building and maintaining performant data flows for a variety of cross-domain analytics platforms. Skilled in providing clear insights through concise data visualizations for a variety of management and senior executive clients.

<div id="webaddress">
<a href="tech@chaung.net">tech@chaung.net</a>
| <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholaschaung/">https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholaschaung/</a>
</div>


## Interested in

Enabling developers, data scientists, and analysts by building performant data pipelines.



## Education

`2019 - 2023`
__M.S. Computer Science (projected) , Georgia Institute of Technology__

- Courses completed: Knowledge-Based Artificial Intelligence (AI), Applied Cryptography, Robotics: AI Techniques

`2012`
__B.S. Mathematics, George Mason University__

- Awarded the National Science Foundation (NSF) Computational Science Training for Undergraduates in the Mathematical Sciences (CSUMS) Research Grant
- Research grant topic: Effects of Non-Independent Behavior on a Macroeconomic Model; <a href="http://jointmathematicsmeetings.org/amsmtgs/2138_abstracts/1077-91-2426.pdf">http://jointmathematicsmeetings.org/amsmtgs/2138_abstracts/1077-91-2426.pdf</a>



## Certifications

`May 2020`
Amazon Web Services (AWS) Certified Solutions Architect - Associate, AWS



## Work experience

`Dec 2020 - present`
__Senior Data Engineering Consultant, LMI Inc.__, Arlington, VA

- Built and maintained Apache NiFi data flows that processed real-time, streaming, imagery and sensor data from AWS S3 data sources
- Deployed NiFi and anti-virus scanning applications to AWS cloud in containerized environments via Docker/Kubernetes/Rancher
- Maintained data processing EC2/NiFi instances and wrote shell and Python scripts as necessary for data flow processing, maintenance, and optimization
- Developed cross-domain data pipeline in less than a week to support mission essential operations
- Member of the Data Team for the Special Operations Command Global Analytics Platform

`Jan 2019 - Dec 2020`
__Data Scientist, Quadrint Inc.__, Springfield, VA

- During COVID-19 remote work period, sustained mission continuity by developing and deploying a new unclassified data science environment; deployed and maintained Jupyter Notebooks server on AWS EC2 with databases on Aurora
- Advised clients on optimal cloud architectures for data science environments
- Developed Python scripts to transform unstructured data to structured data in PostgreSQL, from mission-essential and mission-support databases
- As a database administrator, facilitated performant analytics by ensuring organization’s data assets (PostgreSQL) were properly indexed and integrated into automated processing workflows
- Scaled and maintained organization’s cloud assets (AWS EC2 and RDS) and workflows (bash scripts and AWS Lambda functions) as necessary to support fluctuating demand from various data processing pipelines

`Oct 2017 - Jan 2019`
__Data Analyst Consultant, Custom Analysis LLC,__ Springfield, VA
- Co-developed first Tableau demographics dashboard for a federal intelligence agency department
- Ensured agency promotions complied with EEOC guidelines by conducting adverse impact statistical analysis in R
- Saved over 200 man-hours per year by automating monthly cleaning of agency demographics data using Python

`Sep 2012 - Sep 2017`
__Nuclear Submarine Officer, USS Asheville (SSN 758),__ Pearl Harbor, HI

Senior Engineering Supervisor
- Selected from among the most experienced division officers to plan and coordinate efforts of over 50 personnel to complete major project milestones; e.g., integrated high-pressure steam testing of overhauled mechanical systems, reactor instrumentation factory acceptance testing, and control rod physics testing
- Acted as the focal point for technical communication with regulatory agencies and with design engineers

Engineering Duty Officer/Engineering Officer of the Watch
- Awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal in recognition of exemplary performance; specifically for leadership exhibited during a radiological casualty, worst ever of its kind at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard, and sustained expert coordination of reactor plant evolutions
- Supervised teams of over 20 people in the safe operation of the reactor plant, proper operation of radiation monitoring systems, and execution of first-time quality reactor and steam plant maintenance
- Volunteered to support the USS Columbus on its deployment to USSOUTHCOM from Apr. 2015 -- Aug. 2015; included the first ever visit of a US nuclear submarine to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba

Reactor Control Officer
- Awarded Junior Officer of the Year 2016, ranked 1 of 12 peers, in recognition of exceptional leadership of Reactor Control division and Engineering department personnel, fastidious management of the maintenance quality control program, and demonstrated resilience during extended periods of short-staffing during overhaul
- Supervised the complete overhaul of the reactor instrumentation complex; part of an entire ship overhaul with a project cost of over $500 million
- The successful upgrade of the reactor instrumentation complex directly contributed to Asheville being awarded the Submarine Squadron Seven Engineering Department of the Year 2016; 1 of 11 Engineering Departments



## Skills

Cloud (AWS): EC2, S3, RDS, Aurora, Diode, Lambda, VPC architectures

Python: numpy, pandas, various SQL connectors, requests, PIL

Databases: PostgreSQL, Aurora

Comfortable with Linux shell scripting, scheduling, and services

Familiar with Agile and SAFe development practices

Others: git, docker, kubectl, Jupyter Notebooks, R, Apache NiFi, Tableau



<!-- ### Footer

Last updated: April 2021 -->

Commit message:

Removed interested in line and revised recent work

index.md, after:

---
layout: cv
title: Nicholas Chaung's CV
---
# Nicholas Chaung
Experienced Data Engineer with a proven history of building and maintaining performant data flows for a variety of cross-domain analytics platforms. Skilled in providing clear insights through concise data visualizations for a variety of management and senior executive clients.

<div id="webaddress">
<a href="tech@chaung.net">tech@chaung.net</a>
| <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholaschaung/">https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholaschaung/</a>
</div>



## Education

`2019 - 2023`
__M.S. Computer Science (projected) , Georgia Institute of Technology__

- Courses completed: Knowledge-Based Artificial Intelligence (AI), Applied Cryptography, Robotics: AI Techniques

`2012`
__B.S. Mathematics, George Mason University__

- Awarded the National Science Foundation (NSF) Computational Science Training for Undergraduates in the Mathematical Sciences (CSUMS) Research Grant
- Research grant topic: Effects of Non-Independent Behavior on a Macroeconomic Model; <a href="http://jointmathematicsmeetings.org/amsmtgs/2138_abstracts/1077-91-2426.pdf">http://jointmathematicsmeetings.org/amsmtgs/2138_abstracts/1077-91-2426.pdf</a>



## Certifications

`May 2020`
Amazon Web Services (AWS) Certified Solutions Architect - Associate, AWS



## Work experience

`Dec 2020 - present`
__Senior Data Engineering Consultant, LMI Inc.__, Arlington, VA

- Deployed containerized multi anti-virus scanner application to the enterprise Kubernetes cluster, utilizing Gitlab CI/CD runners and Rancher
- Built and maintained Apache NiFi data flows that processed real-time, streaming, imagery and sensor data from AWS S3 data sources
- Deployed NiFi and anti-virus scanning applications to AWS cloud in containerized environments via Docker/Kubernetes/Rancher
- Maintained data processing EC2/NiFi instances and wrote shell and Python scripts as necessary for data flow processing, maintenance, and optimization
- Developed cross-domain data pipeline in less than a week to support mission essential operations
- Member of the Data Team for the Special Operations Command Global Analytics Platform

`Jan 2019 - Dec 2020`
__Data Scientist, Quadrint Inc.__, Springfield, VA

- During COVID-19 remote work period, sustained mission continuity by developing and deploying a new unclassified data science environment; deployed and maintained Jupyter Notebooks server on AWS EC2 with databases on Aurora
- Advised clients on optimal cloud architectures for data science environments
- Developed Python scripts to transform unstructured data to structured data in PostgreSQL, from mission-essential and mission-support databases
- As a database administrator, facilitated performant analytics by ensuring organization’s data assets (PostgreSQL) were properly indexed and integrated into automated processing workflows
- Scaled and maintained organization’s cloud assets (AWS EC2 and RDS) and workflows (bash scripts and AWS Lambda functions) as necessary to support fluctuating demand from various data processing pipelines
- Provided on-site support to the Corporate Analytics and Program Evaluation (CAPE) organization at the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA)

`Oct 2017 - Jan 2019`
__Data Analyst Consultant, Custom Analysis LLC,__ Springfield, VA
- Co-developed first Tableau demographics dashboard for the NGA Office of Diversity and Equal Opportunity Employment (ODE)
- Ensured agency promotions complied with EEOC guidelines by conducting adverse impact statistical analysis in R
- Saved over 200 man-hours per year by automating monthly cleaning of agency demographics data using Python

`Sep 2012 - Sep 2017`
__Nuclear Submarine Officer, USS Asheville (SSN 758),__ Pearl Harbor, HI

Senior Engineering Supervisor
- Selected from among the most experienced division officers to plan and coordinate efforts of over 50 personnel to complete major project milestones; e.g., integrated high-pressure steam testing of overhauled mechanical systems, reactor instrumentation factory acceptance testing, and control rod physics testing
- Acted as the focal point for technical communication with regulatory agencies and with design engineers

Engineering Duty Officer/Engineering Officer of the Watch
- Awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal in recognition of exemplary performance; specifically for leadership exhibited during a radiological casualty, worst ever of its kind at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard, and sustained expert coordination of reactor plant evolutions
- Supervised teams of over 20 people in the safe operation of the reactor plant, proper operation of radiation monitoring systems, and execution of first-time quality reactor and steam plant maintenance
- Volunteered to support the USS Columbus on its deployment to USSOUTHCOM from Apr. 2015 -- Aug. 2015; included the first ever visit of a US nuclear submarine to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba

Reactor Control Officer
- Awarded Junior Officer of the Year 2016, ranked 1 of 12 peers, in recognition of exceptional leadership of Reactor Control division and Engineering department personnel, fastidious management of the maintenance quality control program, and demonstrated resilience during extended periods of short-staffing during overhaul
- Supervised the complete overhaul of the reactor instrumentation complex; part of an entire ship overhaul with a project cost of over $500 million
- The successful upgrade of the reactor instrumentation complex directly contributed to Asheville being awarded the Submarine Squadron Seven Engineering Department of the Year 2016; 1 of 11 Engineering Departments



## Skills

Cloud (AWS): EC2, S3, RDS, Aurora, Diode, Lambda, VPC architectures

Python: numpy, pandas, various SQL connectors, requests, PIL

Databases: PostgreSQL, Aurora

Comfortable with Linux shell scripting, scheduling, and services

Familiar with Agile and SAFe development practices

Others: git, docker, kubectl, Jupyter Notebooks, R, Apache NiFi, Tableau



<!-- ### Footer

Last updated: April 2021 -->
